Add `4 Digit osu!mania World Cup 2024 Concludes` news post (#11053)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2024/2024-03-03-4dmwc-2024-concludes.md

![](/wiki/Tournaments/4DM/2024/img/4dm2024-banner.jpg)

For anyone vaguely involved in community affairs, the 4 Digit osu!mania World Cup (or 4DM for short) should ring a familiar bell. It is one of the biggest community ran tournaments in the game with over **225 participating users**, and a stepping stone for any player to overcome looking to aim for higher heights in the tournament sphere. So who knows, maybe we'll get to see our participants in this year's [osu!mania World Cup](/wiki/Tournaments/MWC)!

But before we delve into the future, let's recap what's been going on these last couple months, shall we?

## Summary

![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-03-03-4dmwc-2024-concludes/4dmwc-24-podium.jpg)

First and foremost, congratulations to Vietnam for winning this year's 4DM! A feat to be proud of given how competitive these tournaments get. Their performance across the entire tournament was noteworthy. And if the last match's result isn't anything to go by, their overall superiority over their peers is worth highlighting.

> The United States and Taiwan were forces to be reckoned with. While the win may've appeared to be uncontested, that couldn't be further from the truth. Both team's performances were unparalleled, and their podium placements were well deserved!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The United States and Taiwan were forces to be reckoned with. While the win may've appeared to be uncontested, that couldn't be further from the truth. Both teams' performances were unparalleled, and their podium placements were well deserved!
```

> We suggest watching the VOD if you haven't yet to get a taste of what the best-of-the-best players had to offer in their last match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We suggest watching the VOD if you haven't yet to get a taste of what the best of the best of players had to offer in their last match.
```

### Round of 32

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-03-03-4dmwc-2024-concludes/plana-stella-achernar.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2119559#mania/4452403)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://wala.s-ul.eu/HuEppZpP.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

### Round of 16

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-03-03-4dmwc-2024-concludes/game-make-over.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2123356#mania/4462335)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://wala.s-ul.eu/YUZ9VLD3.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

### Finals

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-03-03-4dmwc-2024-concludes/beyond-wood.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2134266#mania/4490359)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://wala.s-ul.eu/8iz3aFnU.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

## Interviews

> Getting to know the thoughts of those most closely involved with the project is a good chance to reflect on some user experiences throughout the tournament. Not only does it give them the chance to introspect their contributions, but it gives us — the readers — a perspective and insight that we would've otherwise had missed!

Reviewer 2: having two en dashes feels too disruptive to me
```suggestion
Getting to know the thoughts of those most closely involved with the project is a good chance to reflect on some user experiences throughout the tournament. Not only does it give them the chance to introspect their contributions, but it gives us — the readers, a perspective and insight that we would've otherwise had missed!
```

Reviewer: that's how em dashes are supposed to be used (enclosing an interjection), much like parentheses

Author: Assuming it's A-Okay then

>
> I’m forever grateful that my 6-year effort was not in vain and that our community received this triumph harmoniously.

*It’s noted that you have decided to stop competing in international competitions moving forward. Although you have much more important priorities, will you still stay in touch with the Vietnamese community moving forward?*

> Absolutely! My head said leave, but my heart said stay! I’ve spent a portion of my life on this game and the community I built, there’s no way I’ll leave it to rot. If the future Vietnam MWC/4DM teams need me as a coach, I’m always welcome. Furthermore, we have numerous projects for the community that require technology and creativity. I’m quite confident in my web development and imagination skills, so as long as I still have gray matter in my neurons, I’ll always be there to help.

### SiLiS / Raveille

[Raveille](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1388767) needs no introduction in the mania community, but his work as a music producer should be taken notice of as he has made the Round of 16 Tiebreaker song for this tournament: [GAME MAKE OVER](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2123356#mania/4462335)!

---

> *So what was the process behind making GAME MAKE OVER for 4DM 2024?*

Reviewer 2: since we cant put emphasis on the song name via italics maybe do it with quotation marks?
```suggestion
*So what was the process behind making "GAME MAKE OVER" for 4DM 2024?*
```

Reviewer: in the owc post we just left is as is

Reviewer 2: your guys' choice really then

Author: As is it is if that's the format that was followed before.

> The theme I already had in mind was an adventure from the start of retro arcade games to the present with modern arcade games. The initial plan was to use the coin slotting sound effect to switch between genres and BPM and to signify the change of period. With that, I went from a casual and chill track, into a racing BGM, followed by an underwater level, then a fighting game soundtrack, a first-person shooter ambiance, and that is finished with piano to signify the beginning of the modern era, which is the invasion of rhythm games in arcades.

*How much time did you spend on producing this song? Was there a deadline you had to meet?*

> I contacted DannyPX in September 2023 expressing my interest in doing a tiebreaker song for the tournament, and the final audio was completed on Christmas Day. I wasn’t given a deadline but knowing that the first round began in early January, I essentially had until the end of the year to complete the song.

> *How would you compare producing GAME MAKE OVER over other custom songs you've made for other osu tournaments?*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*How would you compare producing "GAME MAKE OVER" over other custom songs you've made for other osu tournaments?*
```

>
> So yeah, being respectful, knowing the community somewhat to know how to talk to people and just trying to be friendly and nice with everyone.

*How long do you see yourself wanting to continue being a huge part of osu!mania community until?*

> I think "huge" is an overstatement nowadays in regard to how involved I am hah. Had I not been pulled by Danny and Komi in COE I don't know if 4DM would have even happened so, for that to be the case, my involvement by then couldn't be close to huge.
>
> I still enjoy commentating every once in a while so for now I don't think I will stop doing that for some more time. Hosting wise? I hope I don't do much more because I am not as reliable anymore, life is getting in the way (thankfully in a good way!) and it may be time to move on soon. I barely play anymore and just occasionally map due to it being fun to do, so as long as it stays fun I guess I will continue to do so.

> 

Reviewer 2: anymore or any more?

Reviewer: anymore
any more spaces and it'd mean something different

But before we delve into the future, let's recap what's been going on these last couple months, shall we?

## Summary

![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-03-03-4dmwc-2024-concludes/4dmwc-24-podium.jpg)

First and foremost, congratulations to Vietnam for winning this year's 4DM! A feat to be proud of given how competitive these tournaments get. Their performance across the entire tournament was noteworthy, and if the last match's result is anything to go by, their overall superiority over their peers is worth highlighting.

The United States and Taiwan were forces to be reckoned with. While the win may've appeared to be uncontested, that couldn't be further from the truth. Both teams' performances were unparalleled, and their podium placements were well deserved!

We suggest watching the VOD if you haven't yet to get a taste of what the best of the best of players had to offer in their last match.

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?video=2073463371&parent=osu.ppy.sh&autoplay=false" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

> Suffice to say, if the 6th iteration of the 4DM could be defined with one word alone, that'd be "experimentation" with over **67 custom maps** made for this tournament alone! There were a lot of noteworthy changes and unique quirks that have set this tournament apart from others. The biggest of which would be the new pooling paradigm proposed. We can only hope for our expectations to be subverted yet again next year!

Reviewer: same here

Author: There was another comment made on this paragraph. Besides the pooling paradigm stuff, what else had to be changed? It's not highlighted.

Reviewer: ah, the last sentence, same as https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/11053#discussion_r1510117296

Author: Discussed with the hosts. It is uncertain. Therefore, we can leave it ambiguous like "see you next year" or something of the sorts. Will use that for the time being.

> Suffice to say, if the 6th iteration of the 4DM could be defined with one word alone, that'd be "experimentation" with over **67 custom maps** made for this tournament alone! There were a lot of noteworthy changes and unique quirks that have set this tournament apart from others. The biggest of which would be the new pooling paradigm proposed. We can only hope for our expectations to be subverted yet again next year!

Author: Solved in https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/11053/commits/2511e77bf26d8b0204b7124ebd85e8c37d88a87e

## Highlights

As is to be expected, a tournament of this calibre had a bunch of moments worth putting under the spotlight! And what better way to do that than to recap everything in a video. Thanks to [Polytetral](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8612061) and the vast amount of clip submissions they got, we'd like to present to you the tournament's highlights:

<div align="center">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="Marti the video, paste the video. The. Unlisted. Video. Do not merge without the video." frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

> From commentary bloopers, to close calls and nerve-wracking moments all across the tournament. The video has it all! Alternatively if you want the long version of events, all VODs can be found in the [4digitmwc Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/collections/2LFhgDzhpxcVmQ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From commentary bloopers to close calls and nerve-wracking moments all across the tournament, the video has it all! Alternatively if you want the long version of events, all VODs can be found in the [4digitmwc Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/collections/2LFhgDzhpxcVmQ).
```

### Round of 32

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-03-03-4dmwc-2024-concludes/plana-stella-achernar.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2119559#mania/4452403)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://wala.s-ul.eu/HuEppZpP.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

### Round of 16

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-03-03-4dmwc-2024-concludes/game-make-over.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2123356#mania/4462335)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://wala.s-ul.eu/YUZ9VLD3.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

### Finals

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-03-03-4dmwc-2024-concludes/beyond-wood.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2134266#mania/4490359)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://wala.s-ul.eu/8iz3aFnU.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

## Interviews

Getting to know the thoughts of those most closely involved with the project is a good chance to reflect on some user experiences throughout the tournament. Not only does it give them the chance to introspect their contributions, but it gives us — the readers — a perspective and insight that we would've otherwise missed!

> ::{#TvS SorAKuN}::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::{#tvs-sorakun}::
```

>
> We've had smiles and tears, but this victory on 4DM24 will remain among our community's greatest achievements. It is the symbol of our long-lasting fight, paid with sweat, tears, and endless determination.
>
> I'm forever grateful that my 6-year effort was not in vain and that our community received this triumph harmoniously.

*It's noted that you have decided to stop competing in international competitions moving forward. Although you have much more important priorities, will you still stay in touch with the Vietnamese community moving forward?*

> Absolutely! My head said leave, but my heart said stay! I've spent a portion of my life on this game and the community I built, there's no way I'll leave it to rot. If the future Vietnam MWC/4DM teams need me as a coach, I'm always welcome. Furthermore, we have numerous projects for the community that require technology and creativity. I'm quite confident in my web development and imagination skills, so as long as I still have grey matter in my neurons, I'll always be there to help.

> ::{#SiLiS}::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::{#silis}::
```

> I contacted [DannyPX](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11253722) in September 2023 expressing my interest in doing a tiebreaker song for the tournament, and the final audio was completed on Christmas Day. I wasn't given a deadline but knowing that the first round began in early January, I essentially had until the end of the year to complete the song.

*How would you compare producing GAME MAKE OVER over other custom songs you've made for other osu tournaments?*

> This was the first time I wanted to do a tiebreaker-length song as a solo work. I've collaborated on tiebreakers and game-sized songs (3 minutes or less) as a solo project, but nothing this big before. It was a challenge.

*As a producer, do you have any aspirations or goals you want to achieve?*

> The biggest goal obviously is to turn this into a living for the future, making money by being able to provide music to game companies, advertisements, or helping others with commissions. Another goal is to also provide my music to bigger rhythm games and arcade rhythm games too.

::{#juankristal}::

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-03-03-4dmwc-2024-concludes/juankristal-header.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/443656)

> He may be a new Coordinator for the 4DM series, but [juankristal](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/443656) has years of experience in tournament staffing for mania tournaments! A beloved member of the community, juan gave his thoughts on hosting 4DM and his experience over the years!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He may be a new coordinator for the 4DM series, but [juankristal](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/443656) has years of experience in tournament staffing for mania tournaments! A beloved member of the community, juan gave his thoughts on hosting 4DM and his experience over the years!
```

>
> That and I guess dealing with people's feedback for map pools in general. It was hard to get our point across with our new pooling structure. Having LNs in rice maps or rice in LN maps was something difficult to discuss with feedback-givers.

*You've been a part of mania tournaments for about 10 years. What did you learn over the years of all the experience you have cultivated that makes you such a beloved member of the community?*

> That's a tricky question, it feels so long ago... I think trying to be reasonable and talking with the community are the things I learned the most. We are all used to having big essays of text in mania and having async communication, but I prefer to be more direct and have debates trying to get my points across, I believe that usually leads to more fruitful discussion and all parties tend to be happier afterward so long as the talks are reasonable and respectful.
>
> So yeah, being respectful, knowing the community somewhat to know how to talk to people and just trying to be friendly and nice with everyone.

> *How long do you see yourself wanting to continue being a huge part of osu!mania community until?*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*How long do you see yourself continuing to be a huge part of the osu!mania community?*
```

> I think "huge" is an overstatement nowadays in regard to how involved I am hah. Had I not been pulled by Danny and Komi at COE I don't know if 4DM would have even happened so, for that to be the case, my involvement by then couldn't be close to huge.
>
> I still enjoy commentating every once in a while so for now I don't think I will stop doing that for some more time. Hosting wise? I hope I don't do much more because I am not as reliable anymore, life is getting in the way (thankfully in a good way!) and it may be time to move on soon. I barely play anymore and just occasionally map due to it being fun to do, so as long as it stays fun I guess I will continue to do so.

---

A project of this magnitude wouldn't have been possible without the help of **88 volunteers and contributors** spread across the tournament! We want to thank their involvement to make this yet another memorable year of this series.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-03-03-4dmwc-2024-concludes/4dmwc-24-credits.png)

> With that said, the latest iteration of the 4 Digit osu!mania World Cup officially concludes. But fret not, as there is more to come! Stay tuned next year as the next iteration has a high bar of expectations to clear. And worry not, the expectations will be met.

Reviewer: can you guarantee that there will be a next year

Author: No, we cannot. Changed and resolved.
